User segment analysis allows product managers
to look at data from the perspective of different types of customers.
Users segments are groups of users that share a similar characteristic.
A user segment can be based on when the user started a product,
user demographics such as age and gender,
behavioral characteristics such as how often a site is visited,
or even variable user characteristics such as the device used when accessing a software.
When product data is only evaluated for all users together regardless of segment,
product managers lose valuable information.
Users are not all the same,
and segment analysis allows us to find patterns in the data
about how our product is succeeding or failing specific types of users.
User segment analysis helps us find places where
a product or feature works better for some than others.
The findings from analyzing data in this way often drive further research that
leads to optimizations enabling
the product to better appeal to user segments of interest.